---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: My Interest in Management Information Systems 
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-01-20
labels:
  - Management Information Systems
---
In Spring 2019, my first semester at UH Manoa, I wanted to be a Finance and International Business major. However, in Fall 2019 while taking BUS311, my interest in Management Information Systems sparked. Learning about how much technology can actually aid a business was mind blowing, and so I started asking my MIS friends about the major and the skills it would take to receive a degree in this field. I was very interested, and as I asked more people about the subject, such as family and professionals, I became even more intrigued. 

Through asking around, I learned that my uncle, a successful software developer, was an MIS major in college. Although his job relates more to computer science, he was extremely excited when I told him the first class I am taking is a programming class. He went on to tell me that he created a multi million dollar software program that is used in casinos throughout the world, and the satisfaction that he gets from knowing he is the creator of the program is second to none. This was the moment I was truly excited to go through the MIS program at UH Manoa.

Although I was originally planning on majoring in Finance and International Business, I have decided that I will pursue a double major in Finance and MIS instead, due to the fact that MIS involves more hard skills and will be more applicable to my life in the future. I have high hopes for the future, and I am ready for any of the challenges that comes along with it. 
