---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5, Reflecting on Assignment2 Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-02-13
labels:
  - Assignment3 Checkpoint
---
Checkpoint A:
Describe your design for your site's shopping cart. That is, will it be a separate page that the user can view and edit, or will it be integrated into the product pages? If so, describe in detail how this will work on your site. Provide several examples of using the cart.
 My cart’s shopping cart will be integrated into the product pages and will stick to the textbox after the user leaves the page! For example, if they add 1 Ultraboost to the cart and move to the next product page and come back, the Ultraboost quantity will remain one. I plan on keeping this consistent throughout my Assignment3. 
 
Checkpoint B:
Explain specifically how you will use sessions to manage your shopping cart. In particular, what shopping cart data will be stored in the session, what data format will be used (NOT what data type, but the format like with the data format used for your registration data). Use code examples showing what data structures (such as arrays and their keys) you will use to manage the shopping cart data and how they will beused in $_SESSION.
 When a user is logged in, they will be given a session ID automatically. The session will not expire until 30 minutes of being away from the screen. In order to retrieve session data, I will have to request the data from each “page” of my products, and add them all together. 
 
 Checkpoint C:
 How will you avoid access to your application when the user has not logged in or registered? What are the particular security concerns you must address?
  I will avoid access to my application when the user has not logged in by only allowing the user to checkout IF they have logged in. For example, if userdata = “” then I will redirect them back to the product or login page. I will try to address security concerns by destroying sessions once the user has checked out. If I have time I will create a logout button that will log them out at the user’s will. 
 
Checkpoint D:
Upon a successful login, how do you provide personalization in your UI? Explain how you did or will do this (paste code if necessary):
Upon successful login, I will display the date (by using the dateNow function) and display a “welcome user”. In order to personalize user information I will be using cookies, and code such as request.cookies[username] . After purchasing, I will send out a thank-you note with the user’s name and let them know I will email the invoice to them. 

Checkpoint E:
If you are working with partners, how will you split up the work in your team so that you are working in parallel as effectively as possible? That is, who is doing what and when?
I am working alone! Professor Port is a great resource, though. 
 
Checkpoint F:
How are you approaching Assignment 3 differently than Assignment 2?
Approaching Assignment3 was a little different since the due date is during finals week! I knew that this assignment would take the longest continuous work. Since my last final was on Tuesday, I spent all day/night these past few days working on it. I also learned that I need to take a careful approach in adding/altering code because a few little mistakes can break the entire application! 

