---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1: UI Basics Technical Essay
date: 2020-02-13
labels:
  - WOD1
  - WOD2
  - WOD3
---
  WODS 1, 2, and 3 started off simple (WOD1) and became more challenging as I got to WODs 2 and 3.If you did not do the readings prior to WOD1, you will not be able to complete it, so I recommend you read the articles thoroughly.In WOD1, I learned how to make a webpage by using different headers, utilizing internal and external links, lists, and using anchors and ids.It took me about 20 minutes to complete WOD1 in total. Make sure your screen record is working when using Quicktime! The first time I completed WOD1 my screen was not being recorded although I had thought it was. Huge mistake!

  Of the three WODs, I feel I had the most trouble with WOD2. It took me over 7 tries to complete this within the DNF time. The main reason for my struggles was that I did not yet know about the "Hard refresh" action you can do on your laptop. 
Although my coding was correct throughout the process, I kept finding that if I refreshed the page after making little changes,they would not apply. I ultimately coded the entire WOD2 and did one refresh at the end, and my results came through. 
If I had known about the hard refresh, I could have checked my work as I completed more coding. Nevertheless, I learned a lot by completing WOD2 without looking at the screencast. I learned how to link stylesheets and how to incorporate CSS into my html. Some of the things I learned include incorporating fonts from google, using different fonts, changing backround and font color, and setting the margin and width for my text.

  WOD3 went a lot faster than WOD2, at least for me. In this WOD, I learned how to create a navbar and separate different sections of my website into columns. In order to complete this, you need to have a good grasp on the div tag and the different elements you can create in the CSS stylesheet, such as .left{, .right{ and .center{. I ultimately finished this WOD in the Rx timeframe, which is not too hard if you understand the information you need to complete it. 
  
  In conclusion, you learn critical skills in coding through completing WODs on your own, attempting them on your own and ONLY watching the screencast if you get stuck. Even if you get stuck, you should fiddle around with it on your own and use the "inspect" action on Google Chrome to actively see which parts of your html interact with the different parts of the webpage. The last point I would like to make is that reading the material before attempting WODs are ABSOLUTELY necessary. 
